I have brought several rather futile $6 USB MJPEG UVC capture cards, the little ones with only HDMI input (no passthrough). And some HDMI splitters for it too.

Original idea :
1. A loopback USB VPU for smaller computers that do not have a working VPU or the ability to compress videos internally. May run headless and use ffmpeg to pipe the stream.
Mostly for comparison of the quality of different GPUs like Mali and older AMD GPUs while gaming.
2. An attempt to GameStream a Linux phone by recording it's screen with a webcam.
3. Use a second machine via splitter to view the output on a display while capturing it with the USB capture card.

Prices :
6-8x? USB Capture Cards ($40-50)
Amazon Basics and 2 other HDMI splitters ($12? $12 and one passive one for $7)
Short HDMI cables ($20)
Total : $100 or so

Outcomes and Utility :
USB Capture Card (14% utility ) : While it was used for screen capture a bunch of times, ultimately most went underused at best. MPV is unable to play back the raw JPEG stream and needed to be re-encoded by ffmpeg, making the streaming in particular ineffective.
Recording works, but will also need recompression later. The chroma subsampling and max 1080p30 generally made the basic colors brighter (but losing detail).
In order to use MPV (as guvcview is unwieldy), a LONG command line forcing --untimed, no buffer, and MJPEG lavf decoder is needed. Otherwise the latency is terrible and without MJPEG (raw video) it'd get 5FPS. Ultimately,
the GPU comparison via gaming is considered a terrible idea and was changed to rendering to a video, which does not require any capture cards and is not realtime.
Splitters (0% Utility) : The passive splitter had unstable/weak signal at best, and the powered ones were never used as intended for viewing the output while recording with a UVC capture card. They died before seeing any real use.
Webcam (5% Utility) : Used to control the phone and record it's activity while remote a few times, as well as the desktops running, but it was not used for gaming due to latency and low resolution.

So yeah, it's not a good idea and making setups convuluted isn't a good idea either.
